Tutorials/Monday/TutMo2/Ex-1-Twiss/readme.md, before:

# Exercise 1 — Twiss

## Files

* PSR-Twiss.dat
* plotTwiss.py

## Instructions

In this first exercise, we introduce Zgoubi with a simple example based
on the Los Alamos Proton Storage Ring (PSR). In particular, we compute
the linear lattice properties of that machine.

Open the file `PSR-Twiss.dat` — this is the Zgoubi input file for this
exercise — and spend some time familiarizing yourself with its contents.
On your first reading, don't become lost in the details; just identify
the overall structure. What do you see? What commands (_Zgoubi keywords_)
do you see besides those that define the PSR lattice?

Have a look in the [Zgoubi Users' Guide](https://github.com/radiasoft/Zgoubi-Workshop/blob/master/Zgoubi.pdf)
for information about keywords
`'OBJET'` (pp. 55 and 258),
`'FAISTORE'` (pp. 169 and 233),
`'MATRIX'` (pp. 175 and 252),
and `'TWISS'` (pp. 182 and 297).

In a terminal, navigate to this directory, then run Zgoubi on the input
`PSR-Twiss.dat`. You do this with the command
```
zgoubi -in PSR-Twiss.dat
```
After running Zgoubi, what new files do you see? What are the contents of
those new files?

The first file to look at is `zgoubi.res`.

[Need to add a description of how to use the plotting scripts.]

Commit message:

Latest version of this exercise. Main remaining item is to think about possible extensions for students to try.

Tutorials/Monday/TutMo2/Ex-1-Twiss/readme.md, after:

# Exercise 1 — Twiss

## Files

* plotTwiss.py
* PSR.ipynb
* PSR-Twiss.dat

## Instructions

In this first exercise, we introduce Zgoubi with a simple example based
on the ten-cell Los Alamos Proton Storage Ring (PSR). In particular, we
compute the linear lattice properties of that machine.

Open the file `PSR-Twiss.dat` — this is the Zgoubi input file for this
exercise — and spend some time familiarizing yourself with its contents.
On your first reading, don't become lost in the details; just identify
the overall structure. What do you see? What commands (_Zgoubi keywords_)
do you see besides those that define the PSR lattice?

Have a look in the [Zgoubi Users' Guide](https://github.com/radiasoft/Zgoubi-Workshop/blob/master/Zgoubi.pdf)
for information about keywords
`'OBJET'` (pp. 55 and 258),
`'FAISTORE'` (pp. 169 and 233),
`'MATRIX'` (pp. 175 and 252),
and `'TWISS'` (pp. 182 and 297).

In a terminal, navigate to this directory, then run Zgoubi on the input
`PSR-Twiss.dat`. You do this with the command
```
zgoubi -in PSR-Twiss.dat
```
After running Zgoubi, verify that it exited normally. 

What new files do you see? What are the contents of those new files?

There is a plotting script in plotTwiss.py. Have a look in that file,
and, in particular, study line 7 to identify what information it
extracts, and from where. You can run this plotting script either in
a Python2 console or from the Jupyter notebook `PSR.ipynb`. What do
the results tell you?

[Need to suggest extensions for students to work on.]
